# METAGENOMIC ANALYSIS WITH RAY

## INTRODUCTION

Ray is an assembler that use some reads and called them "seeds" based on these, it starts building contigs, different that de Brujin graph, where the contigs can take different paths at some points instead of "drawing all possible paths" this asembler will stop where a no clear path is encounter.

One of principal chracteristics that we need to know is that the algoritm uses K-mers (strings of nucleotides of a "k" lenght)

## RUNNING THE CODE

Many times is better to run a specific code using a **batch script** rather than running the codes one by one in the cluster. This is specially important if the processing time is long which requires that we stay login while the code is running, otherwise it will stop.
Batch Scripts in the other hand run the code even when we log off the cluster.

The Following is the content of a Batch Script to run RAY, the first 12 lines are instructions for the cluster about the job, 
It describes the name of the job, computer power required to run it, an email where to receive notifications about the job and output and error files that describe the job outcome. The last part is the actual code syaing to load the module, get into a directory called raystuff and finally to run Ray. We can create and save this instructions as a text file. I created mine in Notepad and called it Ray_batch.txt

            #!/bin/bash
            #SBATCH --job-name=RayTest33
            #SBATCH -N 1
            #SBATCH -n 1
            #SBATCH -c 1
            #SBATCH -p mcbstudent
            #SBATCH --qos=mcbstudent
            #SBATCH --mail-type=ALL
            #SBATCH --mem=5G
            #SBATCH --mail-user=validemail@uconn.edu
            #SBATCH -o RayTest33_%j.out
            #SBATCH -e RayTest33_%j.err

            module load Ray/2.3.1
            mkdir raystuff
            cd rayStuff
            Ray -k 33 -s /home/CAM/mcb5896/classFiles/SRR100123.fastq -o SRR_test33

To actually run these command, we have to get into the cluster and go into the desired directory from which we want to run the code, here we have to SCP (secure copy) the Batch Script into these directory and the to actually run the code 

            bash-4.2$ pwd
            /home/CAM/mcb5896/usr11
            bash-4.2$ ls
            chipmunk_fastq  Metagenomics  MiSeq_SOP  PS_results_HMP1  RDP        SRR100123.fastq
            humann2Stuff    Miseq_batch   Project    Ray_batch.txt    SRR100123  transferThisText.txt
            bash-4.2$ sbatch Ray_batch.txt

You will receive a job number assigned and a notification in the e-mailbox when the code start running (it will go to the queue first) and when it sucessfully finish or if it failed.

## RESULTS ANALYSIS
